---
title: How to Integrate Aspose.BarCode for .NET with Aspose.Cells
type: docs
weight: 50
url: /net/how-to-integrate-aspose-barcode-for-net-with-aspose-cells/
---

This article describes the integration of Aspose.BarCode with the one of Aspose Components - Aspose.Cells. Here, we explain how to use barcodes in Microsoft Excel Worksheets with the cooperation of [Aspose.Cells](https://products.aspose.com/cells/net) and [Aspose.BarCode](https://products.aspose.com/barcode/net). Aspose.Cells is intended to create and manage Microsoft Excel Sheets programmatically. In this article, we will demonstrate how to create an Excel file using Aspose.Cells and then add a barcode image (generated by Aspose.BarCode) to one of its worksheets.

## **Creating the Barcode**
First of all, we will create an object of class BarcodeGenerator. The input data to be encoded into a barcode will be saved to the CodeText property of class BarcodeGenerator. The Code 128 symbology will be selected from the EncodeTypes enumeration and then assigned to the EncodeTypes property of BarcodeGenerator, as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-CreatingBarCode-CreatingBarCode.cs" >}}

## **Saving Barcode to MemoryStream**
Once the properties of BarcodeGenerator are configured, we can create and save the generated barcode image to a MemoryStream. For this purpose, we will create an instance of class MemoryStream and then wrap the barcode image into this object by calling the BarcodeGenerator.Save method, as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-SaveBarCodeToMemoryStream-SaveBarCodeToMemoryStream.cs" >}}

## **Adding Barcode Image to Excel Worksheet using Aspose.Cells**
After saving the barcode image to a MemoryStream, the work with the barcode image is completed. Thereafter, it is required to add the generated barcode image (saved in the MemoryStream object) to an Excel worksheet. Aspose.Cells provides class Workbook that represents an Excel file. A Workbook class has a collection of Worksheets. Each Worksheet has a collection of Pictures that stores all images for this particular Worksheet. We can insert the generated barcode image to the Pictures collection by calling the Add method. This method takes a barcode image in the form of MemoryStream with the numbers of the upper-left rows and columns to define the position in the worksheet where the barcode image will be inserted to. After adding the barcode image to the Worksheet, developers can store the produced Excel file in their system by calling the Save method of the Workbook class.

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-AddingBarcodeImageToExcelWorksheet-AddingBarcodeImageToExcelWorksheet.cs" >}}

## **Conclusion**
Aspose.Cells can be integrated with Aspose.BarCode in a very simple way. It provides a neat and clean API to facilitate the job of developers while adding barcode functionality to Excel worksheets by just adding a few lines of code.
