---
title: How to Integrate Aspose.BarCode for .NET with Aspose.Words
type: docs
weight: 30
url: /net/how-to-integrate-aspose-barcode-for-net-with-aspose-words/
---

In this article, we explain how to add a barcode image generated by Aspose.BarCode to a Microsoft Word document (.doc) by integrating [Aspose.BarCode](https://products.aspose.com/barcode/net) and [Aspose.Words](https://products.aspose.com/words/net) components. ***Aspose.Words*** is one of the leading components provided by Aspose Pty Ltd. that allows developers to create and manage Microsoft Word documents programmatically. The detailed discussion about Aspose.Words functionality is beyond the scope of this article. We will only use Aspose.Words to create a Word document and insert a barcode image generated by Aspose.BarCode into this document.

## **Creating Barcodes**
First of all, we will create an object of class BarcodeGenerator. The input data to be encoded into a barcode will be saved to the CodeText property of class BarcodeGenerator. The *Code 128* symbology will be selected from the EncodeType enumeration and then assigned to the EncodeType property of class BarcodeGenerator as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-CreatingBarCode-CreatingBarCode.cs" >}}

## **Creating a Word Document with Barcode Image**
Aspose.Words provides class Document that represents a Microsoft Word document. We can create an instance of this class by calling its empty constructor. To add contents to the Document object, it is necessary to use class DocumentBuilder provided by Aspose.Words. The Document object (to which the generated barcode image will be added) needs to be passed to the constructor of DocumentBuilder that inserts the barcode image into the created Word document by calling the InsertImage method. The [*InsertImage*](https://apireference.aspose.com/words/net/aspose.words/documentbuilder/methods/insertimage/index) method takes the barcode image created by Aspose.BarCode using the GenerateBarCodeImage method of BarcodeGenerator, as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-CreatingWordDocumentWithBarcodeImage-CreatingWordDocumentWithBarcodeImage.cs" >}}

## **Conclusion**
Integration of Aspose.BarCode with Aspose.Words is rather easy compared with other Aspose Components. Aspose.Words provides a very simple API that makes it flexible for developers to add barcode functionality in Word documents.
