---
title: How to Integrate Aspose.BarCode for .NET with Aspose.PDF
type: docs
weight: 10
url: /net/how-to-integrate-aspose-barcode-for-net-with-aspose-pdf/
---

PDF documents have become a popular means to generate reports or other official documents in many organizations. Aspose Pty Ltd. provides a special component called [Aspose.PDF](https://products.aspose.com/pdf/net) to generate PDF documents on the fly. Developers can add barcodes to their PDF documents by integrating Aspose.BarCode with Aspose.PDF. This article will briefly describe the technique to integrate these two products for adding high-quality barcode images to PDF documents. Here, we will discuss how to create a barcode image using Aspose.BarCode and then embed this barcode image into a PDF document generated by Aspose.PDF.

## **Creating the Barcode**
First of all, we will create an object of class BarcodeGenerator. The input data to be encoded into a barcode will be saved to the CodeText property of the BarcodeGenerator object. The Code 128 symbology will be selected from the Symbology enumeration and then assigned to the SymbologyType property of the BarcodeGenerator object, as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-CreatingBarCode-CreatingBarCode.cs" >}}

## **Save Barcode to MemoryStream**
Once the properties of the BarcodeGenerator object are configured, we can create a barcode image and save it to a MemoryStream object. For this purpose, we will create an instance of MemoryStream and then save the barcode image to this MemoryStream object by calling the Save method of class BarcodeGenerator, as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-SaveBarCodeToMemoryStream-SaveBarCodeToMemoryStream.cs" >}}

## **Create a PDF Document using Aspose.PDF**
After saving the generated barcode image to a MemoryStream, the barcode image processinng is finished. Then, it is required to add this barcode image (saved in the MemoryStream) to the PDF document. For this purpose, we need to create a PDF document using Aspose.PDF so that we can add this newly generated barcode image to it. First, we will create an instance of class [Aspose.Pdf.Document](https://apireference.aspose.com/net/pdf/aspose.pdf/document) and then add a page to this document, as shown below:

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-AddBarcodeImageToPDFDocument-CreatePdfDocument.cs" >}}

## **Add Barcode Image to the PDF Document**
Aspose.PDF provides class Document that represents a PDF document. We can create an instance of this class by calling its empty constructor. After creating an empty document, we will add a page by calling the Document.Pages.Add method. The barcode image needs to be converted to a Memorystream object using the BarcodeGenerator.Save method by setting Memorystream as a parameter and BMP as BarCodeImageFormat. Then, it is required to initialize an object of class PdfFileMend class to add the generated barcode image to the created PDF document, as shown below.

{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-AddBarcodeImageToPDFDocument-AddBarcodeImageToPDFDocument.cs" >}}

## **Conclusion**
Aspose.BarCode can be easily integrated with any of Aspose Components to create rich applications to fulfill user requirements. The most interesting thing is that any changes in the Aspose.BarCode version would not affect its integration with other Aspose Components because, for example, Aspose.PDF only deals with barcode images produced by Aspose.BarCode and does not interract with its internal structure.
